install.md: quick pass on content and structure (#470)
urbit/urbit.org: content/using/install.md

aliases = ["/docs/getting-started/"]
+++

Urbit is not for everyday users yet — but if you're technically inclined or generally intrepid, feel free to try it out. It's a good place to explore.

## Overview

There are two major components of the Urbit ecosystem: **Urbit OS** and **Urbit ID**.

The Urbit peer-to-peer (P2P) network is composed of instances of Urbit OS — also called **ships** — that run as virtual machines on any Unix platform. The Urbit ID registry is deployed on the Ethereum blockchain, and individual IDs exist as non-fungible ([ERC-721](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721)) tokens. On the network, Urbit IDs function as network addresses, represented by pronounceable names like `~padmyn-pasnux`.

As we'll explain, there are a few types of Urbit ID, but everyday users tend to use **planets**, as full citizens of the network.

> Two other types of ships are **stars** and **galaxies**. Together these perform essential infrastructural roles for the Urbit network. Each galaxy can distribute 256 stars, and each star can distribute 65,536 planets. So any given planet ultimately came from a specific star, which itself came from a specific galaxy. On the Urbit OS side, stars help route packets; galaxies are more like DNS root servers or ICANN members. The difference with Urbit in the analogy is that Urbit IDs are owned cryptographically by many different people and accrue reputation independently.

Reviewer: > is that Urbit IDs are owned cryptographically by many different people 

This sort of sounds like multiple people can own a single ID.

Author: Well, they can, but I get the intention, will edit

### Windows

> Please note that this method of installing Urbit is experimental, and we may not be able to assist you if you encounter issues related to WSL 2.

These instructions have been tested and verified for WSL 2 + Ubuntu 18.04 LTS.

> Urbit cannot run on Windows itself, but there is a convenient way to run a Linux distro using the [Windows Subsystem for Linux 2](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl2-install) on Windows 10. Install the Windows Subsystem for Linux 2 and open a Linux terminal in Windows, following the Linux installation instructions above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Urbit cannot run on Windows itself, but there is a convenient way to run a Linux distro using the [Windows Subsystem for Linux 2](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl2-install) on Windows 10. Install the Windows Subsystem for Linux 2 and open a Linux terminal in Windows, then follow the Linux installation instructions above.
```

> For performance reasons, do not install Urbit in the mounted Windows volume, but install it in the Linux file system. For example, in your home directory, by typing `cd ~`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For performance reasons, do not install Urbit in the mounted Windows volume, but install it in the Linux file system. For example, in your home directory, which can be navigated to by entering `cd ~`.
```

### Using Landscape

Landscape is the Urbit web interface, and it's the best way to interact with your ship. To access Landscape:

1. Start your ship. In the boot messages, look for a line that says something like `http: live (insecure, public) on 80`. The number given is the port that your ship is using.
2.  If the port given is 80, simply type `localhost` into your browser's address bar. If the given port is a different number, such as `8080`, you would type `localhost:8080`. You'll be met with a login prompt.
3. Type `+code` into your comet's Dojo. Copy-paste the returned code into the field asking for it in the browser page.
4. You're in! Now you can explore apps such as Chat, Publish, and more.

### Join a group

Now that you're on Landscape, join the Urbit Community, a great place for newcomers to ask questions.

Click the 'Groups' button on your Landscape home page, and then click the `Join Group` column. Then, enter `~bitbet-bolbel/urbit-community` into the field and press the `Join Group` button.

From the Urbit Community group you can join a variety of chatrooms, notebooks, and collections.

## Setting up a planet {#id}

> If you have an Urbit ID, you'll use the [Bridge](https://bridge.urbit.org) client to get your ship's *keyfile* before you can [boot your ship](#booting-your-ship).  Your keyfile is a cryptographic secret that allows your Urbit instance to authenticate itself on the network, so you can't boot your planet without it. Your keyfile is deterministically derived from your other cryptographic secrets.

Reviewer: I think the way this is written might give some people the idea that you need to use your keyfile for subsequent boots (I know we clarify this later but I generally don't want to assume people read the whole thing)

```suggestion
If you have an Urbit ID, you'll use the [Bridge](https://bridge.urbit.org) client to get your ship's *keyfile* before you can [boot your ship](#booting-your-ship).  Your keyfile is a cryptographic secret that allows your Urbit instance to authenticate itself on the network, so it is required the first time you boot your ship. Your keyfile is deterministically derived from your other cryptographic secrets.
```
